=head1 NAME

btkbdd - Bluetooth Keyboard Daemon

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<btkbdd>
[-s I<addr>]
[-t I<addr>]
[-c I<file>]
[-d]
I<device>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This tool starts a Bluetooth HID Keyboard service, serving keystrokes 
obtained via Linux Input subsystem's event device (I<evdev>).
In practical terms, it turns your Linux box with a physical keyboard into 
a Bluetooth keyboard, which can be used by various Bluetooth HID capable 
devices, including desktop or tablet computers, smart phones, game 
consoles and so on.

It implements most of the important HID protocol features, including 
robust connection restores (I<virtual cabling>) and report protocol (as 
required by Apple's Darwin-based devices). It is possible and encouraged 
to use the tool from udev, starting it when event devices appear after a 
keyboard is plugged in.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-s> I<addr>

Accept connections on given Bluetooth address. Useful when your computer
has multiple Bluetooth Host Controller Interfaces (I<HCI>).

Class of this device is changed into keyboard while the program is running
and restored upon termination.

Defaults to accepting connections on any interface, while changing the
class only of the first interface I<hci0>, which is a sane default for
computers with a single HCI.

=item B<-t> I<addr>

Attempt connecting to given address upon key press, if no connection has 
been estabilished yet. This can be used to effectively "hardwire" the 
keyboard to a given host.

Once an incoming connection is estabilished and terminated, btkbdd always
tries to restore it upon a key press event.

=item B<-c> I<file>

Save the last connected remote address into given file upon termination 
and restore it on startup.

Use this option if you want to remember last connected device between 
btkbdd runs.

=item B<-d>

Become a daemon.  Give up controlling terminal, open file descriptors and 
double-fork to escape parent process control.

While breaking process hierarchy has certain disadvantages and is 
deprecated with modern service control daemons such as L<systemd(8)>),
it is necessary to do so with L<udevd(8)>, otherwise btkbdd would block 
the whole worker process.

=item I<device>

Linux input subsystem event device to use as source for key presses.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

Use with L<udev(7)> and L<systemd(1)> is recommended. Look into
F<90-btkbdd.rules> and F<btkbdd@.service> files distributed with btkbdd for examples.

=over

=item B<btkbdd /dev/input/event8>

Most basic usage -- just open a keyboard device and listen for incoming 
connections.  When in doubt about which physical device corresponds to an 
event device node, use C<udevadm info --attribute-walk --name=I<file>> to 
identify the device and its connection details.

=item B<btkbdd /dev/input/event8 -s EC:55:F9:EF:12:34 -c /var/lib/btkbdd/keyboard.cable>

Only accept connections on given HCI and remember the connected device.
You can discover your HCI device addresses with C<hcitool dev> command.

=item B<btkbdd /dev/input/event8 -t EC:55:F9:EF:56:78>

Initiate a connection to given Bluetooth host.
You can discover available devices with C<hcitool scan>.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Bluez L<bluetoothd(8)> daemon is likely to listen for HID events. For
btkbdd to accept connection you need to disable the Bluez input plugin
by setting C<DisablePlugins = input> in F</etc/bluetooth/main.conf>.

Nothing but errors is logged and when in daemon mode even the error output 
is lost. Attach L<strace(1)> or launch btkbdd manually to troubleshoot 
errors.

Only a common 101-key keyboard is supported.

To estabilish pairing with iPad, iPod Touch or iPhone,
connection must be initiated and authenticated via L<bluetooth-applet(1)> 
before starting btkbdd. Otherwise the device will initiate a PIN-based 
authentication that is not supported. Once trust is estabilished,
connections will work without a need for any other hassle.

=head1 AUTHORS

=over

=item * Lubomir Rintel <L<lkundrak@v3.sk>>

=item * Collin R. Mulliner <L<collin@betaversion.net>>

L<http://www.mulliner.org/bluetooth/>

Parts of code were taken from were taken from I<xkbd-bthid> project.

=back

btkbdd can be redistributed under the same terms and conditions as 
I<xkbd-bthid> itself: GNU General Public License (any version at your
option).

The source code repository can be obtained from
L<https://github.com/lkundrak/virtkbd>. Bug fixes and feature
ehancements licensed under same conditions as btkbdd  are welcome
via GIT pull requests.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<udev(7)>, L<systemd(1)>, L<systemd.service(5)>, L<systemd.unit(5)>,
L<bluetoothd(8)>, L<hcitool(1)>, 
I<USB Device Class Definition for Human Interface Devices (HID)>,
I<Bluetooth HID Profile>.
