=head1 NAME

evmuxd - Event Device Multiplexing Daemon

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<evmuxd> I<device>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This tool creates two Linux virtual keyboards and forwards the events from a
given physical keyboard to either of the two. It's possible to switch the
target of the redirect with a special key press.

This is useful when the user wants to assign a special purpose to one of the
keyboard while grabbing it (such as exporting the keyboard via L<btkbdd(8)>)
while still retaining the local keyboard functionality on his system.

The virtual keyboard have a sysfs attribute C<name> set to C<evmuxd primary>
and C<evmuxd secondary> with the primary one being chosen by default.

The special key used is C<SCROLL LOCK>.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item I<device>

Linux input subsystem event device to use as event source.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

Use with L<udev(7)> and L<systemd(1)> is recommended. Look into
F<89-evmuxd.rules> and F<evmuxd@.service> files distributed with evmuxd for
examples.

=head1 BUGS

It's possible to create only two devices.

It's not possible to configure the magic key.

It's not possible to control the virtual keyboard metadata, such as name,
product and vendor IDs or version.

Only keyboard input devices are supported.

=head1 AUTHORS

=over

=item * Lubomir Rintel <L<lkundrak@v3.sk>>

=back

evmuxd can be redistributed under the terms of GNU General Public License
(any version at your option).

The source code repository can be obtained from
L<https://github.com/lkundrak/btkbdd>. Bug fixes and feature
ehancements licensed under same conditions as evmuxd  are welcome
via GIT pull requests.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<btkbdd(7)>, L<systemd(1)>, L<systemd.service(5)>, L<systemd.unit(5)>.
